[Previous](ConstitutiveRelations.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](EquationsOfElasticity.md)

### Cartesian Tensors

Cartesian tensors are mathematical objects 
used to describe physical quantities that 
have magnitude and direction in 
three-dimensional space, and transforms 
according to a specific set of rules under 
rotations of the Cartesian coordinate system. 
These rules are known as the transformation 
laws of Cartesian tensors. A Cartesian tensor 
of rank n can be represented by an 
n-dimensional array of numbers, where each 
index of the array represents a specific 
component of the tensor. The values of these 
components depend on the direction of the 
tensor in space.

Cartesian tensors have several important 
properties, including symmetry, antisymmetry, 
and isotropy. A symmetric tensor is one in 
which the components are equal for all pairs 
of indices that are interchanged. An 
antisymmetric tensor is one in which the 
components change sign when any two indices 
are interchanged. An isotropic tensor is one 
in which the components are the same in all 
directions.

Cartesian tensors are widely used in physics 
and engineering, particularly in the study of 
mechanics and electromagnetism. In mechanics, 
Cartesian tensors are used to describe 
physical quantities such as stress and strain 
in materials. In electromagnetism, Cartesian 
tensors are used to describe the electric and 
magnetic fields.

One of the most important applications of 
Cartesian tensors is in the study of 
continuum mechanics. Cartesian tensors are 
used to describe the stress and strain in 
materials under load, and can be used to 
calculate the deformation and failure of 
materials.

Another important application of Cartesian 
tensors is in the study of fluid mechanics. 
Fluid mechanics is the study of the behaviour 
of fluids, including liquids and gases, under 
different conditions. Cartesian tensors are 
used to describe the velocity and pressure 
fields in fluids, and can be used to 
calculate the flow patterns and pressure 
drops in pipes and channels.

In addition to their use in physics and 
engineering, Cartesian tensors are also used 
in mathematics and computer science. They are 
used in the study of linear algebra and group 
theory, and are essential for the development 
of algorithms for numerical simulations.

[Previous](ConstitutiveRelations.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](EquationsOfElasticity.md)
