[Previous](Elasticity.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](CartesianTensors.md)

### Constitutive Relations

The behaviour of a material under load can be 
described using constitutive relations. A 
constitutive relation is a mathematical 
expression that relates the stress and strain 
in a material under a given set of 
conditions. The constitutive relation is 
typically expressed in terms of a material's 
elastic and plastic properties, such as its 
Young's modulus, Poisson's ratio, yield 
strength, and ultimate tensile strength.

There are several types of constitutive 
relations, including linear elastic, 
non-linear elastic, and plastic. The linear 
elastic constitutive relation is used to 
describe materials that exhibit linear 
elastic behaviour, such as metals and 
ceramics. The non-linear elastic constitutive 
relation is used to describe materials that 
exhibit non-linear elastic behaviour, such as 
polymers and elastomers. The plastic 
constitutive relation is used to describe 
materials that exhibit plastic behaviour, 
such as metals and plastics.

The constitutive relations are derived using 
experimental testing, which involves 
subjecting a material to a series of loads 
and measuring its response, which can then be 
used to derive the material's constitutive 
relation. The constitutive relation is a key 
parameter in the study of material behaviour, 
and is used to design and optimise materials 
for specific applications. For example, the 
constitutive relation is used in the design 
of structural components, such as bridges and 
buildings, to ensure that they can withstand 
the stresses and strains they will be 
subjected to. The constitutive relation is 
also used in the design of aerospace 
components, such as aircraft wings and 
fuselages, to ensure that they can withstand 
the stresses and strains of flight. It is 
also used in the study of biological 
materials, such as bones and tissues, to 
understand their behaviour under load.

[Previous](Elasticity.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](CartesianTensors.md)
