### Equations of Elasticity

The equations of elasticity are a set of 
mathematical equations that describe the 
behaviour of elastic materials under 
different loads. Elastic materials are those 
that can be deformed under a load, but return 
to their original shape when the load is 
removed. The equations of elasticity are 
essential for the study of mechanics and 
engineering, particularly in the design of 
structures and machines.

The equations of elasticity are based on the 
principle of conservation of energy, which 
states that energy cannot be created or 
destroyed, only transferred from one form to 
another. In the case of elastic materials, 
the energy is stored in the material as 
potential energy when it is deformed. When 
the load is removed, this potential energy is 
released and the material returns to its 
original shape.

The equations of elasticity are derived from 
the Navier's equation, which is a partial 
differential equation that describes the 
motion of a continuum under the influence of 
external forces. The Navier's equation is 
modified to include the elasticity of the 
material, resulting in a set of equations 
that describe the stress and strain in the 
material.

The equations of elasticity include the 
stress-strain relationship, which describes 
the relationship between the stress and 
strain in the material.

The elasticity equation is typically 
represented by a matrix equation, known as 
the stiffness matrix, which relates the 
stress and strain in the material.

The equations of elasticity also include the 
compatibility equations, which describe the 
relationship between the deformation and the 
displacement of the material. The 
compatibility equations ensure that the 
deformation and displacement of the material 
are consistent with each other, and are 
essential for the accurate calculation of the 
deformation of the material.

[Previous](CartesianTensors.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](StressAtAPoint.md)
