[Previous](StrainField.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](StressField.md)

### Stress

Stress refers to the internal force per unit 
area in an object or material. It is a 
fundamental parameter in the study of 
material behaviour, and is used to describe 
the intensity of internal forces that result 
from external loads or forces. It is 
expressed in units of pascals (Pa), and is 
denoted using the symbol "Ïƒ". Stress is a 
tensor quantity.

There are several types of stress, including 
axial stress, shear stress, and bending 
stress. Axial stress refers to the stress 
acting parallel to the axis of an object, 
while shear stress refers to the stress 
resulting from forces acting perpendicular to 
the surface of an object. Bending stress 
occurs when an object is subjected to forces 
that cause it to bend.

Stress is an important parameter in the study 
of material behaviour, and is used to 
describe the elastic and plastic deformation 
of materials.

The idea of stress could be used to describe 
the state of affairs at any point inside a 
solid in a much more general way. Also, 
stress could be used to predict when the 
material will break.Stress tells us how 
hard- that is, with how much force - the 
atoms at any point in a solid are being 
pulled apart.

[Previous](StrainField.md) || [Index](../../index.md) || [Next](StressField.md)
