[Index](../index.md) || [Next](Basics/Introduction.md)

### Introduction

Elasticity is the property of a material
that enables it to return to its original
shape and size after being subjected to a
force.  Elasticity is an important concept
in engineering, as it allows us to predict
how materials will behave under different
types of stress.

### Displacement

Displacement is the change in position of a
point in a solid body due to the application
of an external force.  Displacement can be
measured in three dimensions, and it is
typically denoted by the symbol "u". 
Displacement is a vector quantity, which
means it has both magnitude and direction.

### Strain

Strain is the measure of the deformation of
a material due to the application of an
external force.  Strain is defined as the
ratio of the change in length of the
material to the original length of the
material.  Strain is typically denoted by
the symbol "ε".  Strain is a dimensionless
quantity.

### Stress

Stress is the measure of the force per unit
area of a material.  Stress is defined as
the ratio of the force acting on the
material to the area over which the force is
applied.  Stress is typically denoted by the
symbol "σ".  Stress is a measure of the
intensity of the force acting on a material.

### Elasticity

Elasticity is the property of a material
that enables it to return to its original
shape and size after being subjected to a
force.  Elasticity is a fundamental property
of all materials, and it plays a crucial
role in many engineering applications.

The Theory of Elasticity is a branch of
solid mechanics that deals with the behavior
of elastic materials.  The Theory of
Elasticity describes the relationships
between displacement, strain, and stress
fields in elastic materials.

Computational Elasticity is a field of study
that involves the use of numerical methods
to solve problems in elasticity. 
Computational Elasticity is used to model
the behavior of complex structures under
various types of stress.

Engineering Solid Mechanics is a branch of
engineering that deals with the behavior of
solid materials under different types of
stress.  Engineering Solid Mechanics is used
to design and analyze structures and
machines.

Advanced Mechanics of Solids is a field of
study that deals with the behavior of solid
materials under extreme conditions. 
Advanced Mechanics of Solids is used to
understand the behavior of materials under
high temperatures, pressures, and other
extreme conditions.

### Conclusion:

Elasticity, displacement, strain, and stress
fields are important concepts in engineering
and solid mechanics.  The study of
elasticity is essential for predicting how
materials will behave under different types
of stress.  Displacement, strain, and stress
fields are used to describe the behavior of
materials under external forces.  The Theory
of Elasticity, Computational Elasticity,
Engineering Solid Mechanics, Advanced
Mechanics of Solids, and other related
fields provide valuable insights into the
behavior of materials under different types
of stress.

[Index](../index.md) || [Next](Basics/Introduction.md)